---
layout: post
title: "READING LIST"
categories: misc
permalink: /reading-list
date: 2022-05-28
---

<!-- 

<details>
	<summary>
	title
	</summary>
	abstract
</details>

<span style="font-size:smaller;"> 
	<em> authors </em>
	-- [link](link){:target="_blank"}
</span> 
-->

# tierd, just links

[Optimal chromatic bound for (P2 + P3, P2 + P3)-free graphs](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2205.07447.pdf)

[INDUCED SUBGRAPHS AND TREE DECOMPOSITIONS V. ONE NEIGHBOR IN A HOLE](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2205.04420.pdf)

[CATCHING AN INFINITELY FAST ROBBER ON A GRID](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2107.14193.pdf)

[A note on Matching-Cut in Pt-free Graphs](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2111.12011.pdf)

[The multi-robber damage number of a graph](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2205.06956.pdf)

[Wordle is NP - HARD](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2203.16713.pdf)

[ENCODING ARGUMENTS](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1603.08777.pdf) [almost end]

[Complete minors and average degree – a short proof](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2202.08530.pdf)

<details>
	<summary>
	Hitting all maximum independent sets
	</summary>
	We describe an infinite family of graphs Gn, where Gn has n vertices, independence number at least n/4, and no set of less than √n/2 vertices intersects all its maximum independent sets. This is motivated by a question of Bollob ́as, Erd ̋os and Tuza, and disproves a recent conjecture of Friedgut, Kalai and Kindler. Motivated by a related question of the last authors, we show that for every graph G on n vertices with independence number (1/4 + ε)n, the average independence number of an induced subgraph of G on a uniform random subset of the vertices is at most (1/4+ε−Ω(ε2))n.
</details>

<span style="font-size:smaller;"> 
	<em> Noga Alon </em>
	-- [link](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2103.05998.pdf){:target="_blank"}
</span> 

<details>
	<summary>
	On a random model of forgetting
	</summary>
	Georgiou, Katkov and Tsodyks considered the following random process. Let x1, x2, . . . be an infinite sequence of independent, identically distributed, uniform ran- dom points in [0,1]. Starting with S = {0}, the elements xk join S one by one, in order. When an entering element is larger than the current minimum element of S, this minimum leaves S. Let S(1,n) denote the content of S after the first n elements xk join. Simulations suggest that the size |S(1,n)| of S at time n is typically close to n/e. Here we first give a rigorous proof that this is indeed the case, and that in fact the symmetric difference of S(1,n) and the set {xk ≥ 1−1/e : 1 ≤ k ≤ n} is of size at most O ̃(√n) with high probability. Our main result is a more accurate description of the process implying, in particular, that as n tends to infinity n−1/2􏰀|S(1, n)| − n/e􏰁 converges to a normal random variable with variance 3e−2 − e−1.
</details>

<span style="font-size:smaller;"> 
	<em> Noga Alon, Dor Elboim, Allan Sly. </em>
	-- [link](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2203.02614.pdf){:target="_blank"}
</span> 

<details>
	<summary>
	A constructive proof of the general Lov ́asz Local Lemma
	</summary>
	The Lov ́asz Local Lemma [EL75] is a powerful tool to non-constructively prove the existence of combinatorial objects meeting a prescribed collection of criteria. In his breakthrough paper [Bec91], Beck demonstrated that a constructive variant can be given under certain more restrictive conditions. Simplifications of his procedure and relaxations of its restrictions were subsequently exhibited in several publications [Alo91, MR98, CS00, Mos06, Sri08, Mos08]. In [Mos09], a constructive proof was presented that works under negligible restrictions, formulated in terms of the Bounded Occurrence Satisfiability problem. In the present paper, we reformulate and improve upon these findings so as to directly apply to almost all known applications of the general Local Lemma.
</details>

<span style="font-size:smaller;"> 
	<em> Robin A. Moser, G ́abor Tardos. </em>
	-- [link](https://arxiv.org/pdf/0903.0544.pdf){:target="_blank"}
</span> 

## On Crossing families

<details>
	<summary>
	Crossing families
	</summary>
	Given a set of points in the plane, a crossing family is a collection of line segments, each joining two of the points, such that any two line segments intersect internally. Two setsA andB of points in the plane are mutually avoiding if no line subtended by a pair of points inA intersects the convex hull ofB, and vice versa. We show that any set ofn points in general position contains a pair of mutually avoiding subsets each of size at least √n/12. As a consequence we show that such a set possesses a crossing family of size at least √n/12, and describe a fast algorithm for finding such a family.
</details>

<span style="font-size:smaller;"> 
	<em> B. Aronov, P. Erdős, W. Goddard, D. J. Kleitman, M. Klugerman, J. Pach & L. J. Schulman  </em>
	-- [link](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/BF01215345?noAccess=true){:target="_blank"}
</span> 

<details>
	<summary>
	On problems related to crossing families
	</summary>
	Given a set of points in the plane, a crossing family is a collection of segments, each joining two of
	the points, such that every two segments intersect internally. Aronov et al. [Combinatorica, 14(2):127-
	134, 1994] proved that any set of n points contains a crossing family of size Ω( n). They also mentioned
	that there exist point sets whose maximum crossing family uses at most n2 of the points. We improve
	the upper bound on the size of crossing families to 5⌈ n ⌉. We also introduce a few generalizations of 24
		crossing families, and give several lower and upper bounds on our generalized notions.

</details>

<span style="font-size:smaller;"> 
	<em> William Evans and Noushin Saeedi </em>
	-- [link](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1906.00191v1.pdf){:target="_blank"}
</span> 

<details>
	<summary>
	On Crossing-Families in Planar Point Sets
	</summary>
	A k-crossing family in a point set S in general position is a set of k segments spanned by points of S such that all k segments mutually cross. In this short note we present two statements on crossing families which are based on sets of small cardinality: (1) Any set of at least 15 points contains a crossing family of size 4.
	(2) There are sets of n points which do not contain a crossing family of size larger than 8⌈ n ⌉. Both results improve the previously best known bounds.
</details>

<span style="font-size:smaller;"> 
	<em> Oswin Aichholzer, Jan Kynˇcl, Manfred Scheucher,
Birgit Vogtenhuber, Pavel Valtr. </em>
	-- [link](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2109.10705.pdf){:target="_blank"}
</span> 

## rest

<details>
	<summary>
	Classes of Graphs Which Approximate the Complete Euclidean Graph
	</summary>
	Let S be a set of N points in the Euclidean plane, and let d(p,q) be the Euclidean distance between points p and q in S. Let G(S) be a Euclidean graph based on S and let G(p,q) be the length of the shortest path in G(S) between p and q. We say a Euclidean graph G(S)t-approximates the complete Euclidean graph if, for every p, q ~ S, G(p, q)/d(p, q) < t. In this paper we present two classes of graphs which closely approximate the complete Euclidean graph. We first consider the graph of the Delaunay triangulation of S, DT(S). We show that DT(S) (2~/(3cos(It/6))~ 2.42)- approximates the complete Euclidean graph. Secondly, we define 0(S), the fixed-angle 0-graph (a type of geometric neighbor graph) and show that O(S) ((1/cos0X1/(1-tan0)))-approximates the complete Euclidean graph.
</details>

<span style="font-size:smaller;"> 
	<em> J. Mark Keil and Carl A. Gutwin </em>
	-- [link](https://link.springer.com/content/pdf/10.1007/BF02187821.pdf){:target="_blank"}
</span> 


<details>
	<summary>
	On Range Searching with Semialgebraic Sets II
	</summary>
	Let P be a set of n points in Rd. We present a linear-size data structure for answering range queries on P with constant-complexity semialgebraic sets as ranges, in time close to O(n1−1/d). It essentially matches the performance of similar structures for simplex range searching, and, for d ≥ 5, significantly improves earlier solutions by the first two authors obtained in 1994. This almost settles a long-standing open problem in range searching.
	The data structure is based on the polynomial-partitioning technique of Guth and Katz [arXiv:1011.4105], which shows that for a parameter r, 1 < r ≤ n, there exists a d-variate polynomial f of degree O(r1/d) such that each connected component of Rd \ Z(f) contains at most n/r points of P, where Z(f) is the zero set of f. We present an efficient randomized algorithm for computing such a polynomial partition, which is of independent interest and is likely to have additional applications.
</details>

<span style="font-size:smaller;"> 
	<em> PANKAJ K. AGARWAL, JIRˇ ́I MATOUSˇEK, MICHA SHARIR. </em>
	-- [link](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1208.3384.pdf){:target="_blank"}
</span> 

<details>
	<summary>
	Searching for the closest-pair in a query translate
	</summary>
	We consider a range-search variant of the closest-pair problem. Let Γ be a fixed shape in the plane. We are interested in storing a given set of n points in the plane in some data structure such that for any specified translate of Γ, the closest pair of points contained in the translate can be reported efficiently. We present results on this problem for two important settings: when Γ is a polygon (possibly with holes) and when Γ is a general convex body whose boundary is smooth. When Γ is a polygon, we present a data structure using O(n) space and O(log n) query time, which is asymptotically optimal. When Γ is a general convex body with a smooth boundary, we give a near-optimal data structure using O(n log n) space and O(log2 n) query time. Our results settle some open questions posed by Xue et al. [SoCG 2018].
</details>

<span style="font-size:smaller;"> 
	<em> Jie Xue, Yuan Li, Saladi Rahul, Ravi Janardan. </em>
	-- [link](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1807.09498.pdf){:target="_blank"}
</span> 

<details>
	<summary>
	Improved Bounds for Track Numbers of Planar Graphs
	</summary>
	A track layout of a graph consists of a vertex coloring and a total order of each color class, such that no two edges cross between any two color classes. The track number of a graph is the minimum number of colors required by a track layout of the graph.
	This paper improves lower and upper bounds on the track number of several fam- ilies of planar graphs. We prove that every planar graph has track number at most 225 and every planar 3-tree has track number at most 25. Then we show that there exist outerplanar graphs whose track number is 5, which leads to the best known lower bound of 8 for planar graphs. Finally, we investigate leveled planar graphs and tighten bounds on the track number of weakly leveled graphs, Halin graphs, and X-trees.
</details>

<span style="font-size:smaller;"> 
	<em> Sergey Pupyrev. </em>
	-- [arXiv:1910.14153](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1910.14153.pdf){:target="_blank"}
</span> 

<details>
	<summary>
	On optimal matchings
	</summary>
	Givenn random red points on the unit square, the transportation cost between them is tipically √n logn.
</details>

<span style="font-size:smaller;"> 
	<em> M. Ajtai, J. Komlós & G. Tusnády. </em>
	-- [link](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/BF02579135?noAccess=true){:target="_blank"}
</span> 

<details>
	<summary>
	Layered Separators in Minor-Closed Graph Classes with Applications
	</summary>
	Graph separators are a ubiquitous tool in graph theory and computer science. However, in some applications, their usefulness is limited by the fact that the separator can be as large as Ω(√n) in graphs with n vertices. This is the case for planar graphs, and more generally, for proper minor-closed classes. We study a special type of graph separator, called a layered separator, which may have linear size in n, but has bounded size with respect to a different measure, called the width. We prove, for example, that planar graphs and graphs of bounded Euler genus admit layered separators of bounded width. More generally, we characterise the minor-closed classes that admit layered separators of bounded width as those that exclude a fixed apex graph as a minor.
	We use layered separators to prove O(log n) bounds for a number of problems where O(√n) was a long-standing previous best bound. This includes the nonrepetitive chromatic number and queue-number of graphs with bounded Euler genus. We extend these results with a O(log n) bound on the nonrepetitive chromatic number of graphs excluding a fixed topological minor, and a logO(1) n bound on the queue-number of graphs excluding a fixed minor. Only for planar graphs were logO(1) n bounds previously known. Our results imply that every n-vertex graph excluding a fixed minor has a 3-dimensional grid drawing with n logO(1) n volume, whereas the previous best bound was O(n3/2).}}
</details>

<span style="font-size:smaller;"> 
	<em> Vida Dujmovic, Pat Morin, David R. Wood. </em>
	-- [arXiv:1306.1595](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1306.1595.pdf){:target="_blank"}
</span>

<details>
	<summary>
	On Generating Triangle-Free Graphs
	</summary>
	We show that the problem to decide whether a graph can be made triangle-free with at most k edge deletions remains NP-complete even when restricted to planar graphs of maximum degree seven. In addition, we provide polynomial-time data reduction rules for this problem and obtain problem kernels consisting of 6k vertices for general graphs and 11k/3 vertices for planar graphs.
</details>

<span style="font-size:smaller;"> 
	<em> Daniel Brugmann, Christian Komusiewicz, Hannes Moser. </em>
	-- [link](https://www.uni-marburg.de/de/fb12/arbeitsgruppen/algorith/paper/triangle-edge-deletion-agt-2009.pdf){:target="_blank"}
</span>


<details>
	<summary>
	Upper bounds for domination numbers of graphs using Turán’s Theorem and Lov́asz local lemma
	</summary>
	Let G be a connected graph of order n with vertex set V (G). A subset S ⊆ V (G) is an (a, b)-dominating set if every vertex v ∈ S is adjacent to at least a vertices in S and every v ∈ V \ S is adjacent to at least b vertices in S. The minimum cardinality of an (a,b)-dominating set of G is the (a,b)-domination number of G, denoted by γa,b(G). There are various results about upper bounds for γa,b(G) when G is regular or a and b are small numbers.
	In the first part of this paper, for a given graph G with the minimum degree of max{a, b}, we define a new graph G′ associated to G and show that the independence number of this graph is related to γa,b(G). In the next part, using Lov ́asz local lemma, we give a randomized approach to improve previous results in some special cases.
</details>

<span style="font-size:smaller;"> 
	<em> Sharareh Alipour, Amir Jafari. </em>
	-- [arXiv:1803.04031](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1803.04031.pdf){:target="_blank"}
</span>

<details>
	<summary>
	Planar Bichromatic Bottleneck Spanning Trees
	</summary>
	Given a set P of n red and blue points in the plane, a planar bichromatic spanning tree of P is a geometric spanning tree of P, such that each edge connects between a red and a blue point, and no two edges intersect. In the bottleneck planar bichromatic spanning tree problem, the goal is to find a planar bichromatic spanning tree T, such that the length of the longest edge in T is minimized. In this paper, we show that this problem is NP-hard for points in general position. Our main contribution is a polynomial-time (8√2)-approximation algorithm, by showing that any bichromatic spanning tree of bottleneck λ can be converted to a planar bichromatic spanning tree of bottleneck at most 8√2λ.
</details>

<span style="font-size:smaller;"> 
	<em> A. Karim Abu-Affash, Sujoy Bhore, Paz Carmi, Joseph S. B. Mitchell. </em>
	-- [link](https://par.nsf.gov/servlets/purl/10282131){:target="_blank"}
</span>

<details>
	<summary>
	Every Large Point Set contains Many Collinear Points or an Empty Pentagon
	</summary>
	We prove the following generalised empty pentagon theorem: for every integer l ≥ 2, every sufficiently large set of points in the plane contains l collinear points or an empty pentagon. As an application, we settle the next open case of the “big line or big clique” conjecture of K ́ara, Po ́r, and Wood [Discrete Comput. Geom. 34(3):497–506, 2005].
</details>

<span style="font-size:smaller;"> 
	<em> Zachary Abel, Brad Ballinger, Prosenjit Bose, Sébastien Collette, Vida Dujmović, Ferran Hurtado, Scott D. Kominers, Stefan Langerman, Attila Pór, David R. Wood. </em>
	-- [arXiv:0904.0262](https://arxiv.org/pdf/0904.0262.pdf){:target="_blank"}
</span>


<details>
	<summary>
	Rainbow Turán Methods for Trees
	</summary>
	We prove the following generalised empty pentagon theorem: for every integer l ≥ 2, every sufficiently large set of points in the plane contains l collinear points or an empty pentagon. As an application, we settle the next open case of the “big line or big clique” conjecture of K ́ara, Po ́r, and Wood [Discrete Comput. Geom. 34(3):497–506, 2005].
</details>

<span style="font-size:smaller;"> 
	<em> Vic Bednar, Neal Bushaw. </em>
	-- [arXiv:2203.13765](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2203.13765v1.pdf){:target="_blank"}
</span>

<details> 
	<summary>
	Planar Graphs have Bounded Queue-Number <span style="color:green"> [done] </span>
	</summary>
	We show that planar graphs have bounded queue-number, thus proving a conjecture of Heath, Leighton and Rosenberg from 1992. The key to the proof is a new structural tool called layered partitions, and the result that every planar graph has a vertex-partition and a layering, such that each part has a bounded number of vertices in each layer, and the quotient graph has bounded treewidth. This result generalises for graphs of bounded Euler genus. Moreover, we prove that every graph in a minor-closed class has such a layered partition if and only if the class excludes some apex graph. Building on this work and using the graph minor structure theorem, we prove that every proper minor-closed class of graphs has bounded queue-number.
	
	Layered partitions have strong connections to other topics, including the following two examples. First, they can be interpreted in terms of strong products. We show that every planar graph is a subgraph of the strong product of a path with some graph of bounded treewidth. Similar statements hold for all proper minor-closed classes. Second, we give a simple proof of the result by DeVos et al. (2004) that graphs in a proper minor-closed class have low treewidth colourings.

</details>

<span style="font-size:smaller;"> 
	<em> Vida Dujmović, Gwenaël Joret, Piotr Micek, Pat Morin, Torsten Ueckerdt, David R. Wood. </em>
	-- [arXiv:1904.04791](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1904.04791.pdf){:target="_blank"}
</span> 